 AWS Load Balancer Demo

This guide demonstrates how to set up a basic load balancer in AWS with two EC2 instances running Nginx. 
Prerequisites
- AWS Account
- Basic understanding of AWS services (EC2, Load Balancers)


Steps

1. Create Two EC2 Instances

    a. Log in to the AWS Management Console.

    b. Navigate to the EC2 Dashboard and click "Launch Instance".

    c. Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) (e.g., Amazon Linux 2 AMI).

    d. Select an instance type (e.g., t2.micro).

    e. Configure the instance details (default settings are fine for this demo).

    f. Add storage (default settings are fine).

    g. Add tags (optional).

    h. Configure Security Group:
        - Allow HTTP traffic on port 80.
        - Allow SSH traffic on port 22 (for instance management).

    i. Review and launch the instances, creating a new key pair or using an existing one for SSH access.

2. Configure the Instances

    a. SSH into each EC2 instance:
  
    ssh -i path_to_your_key_pair.pem ec2-user@your_instance_public_ip
    

    b. Install Nginx:
    
    sudo yum update -y
    sudo yum install nginx
    sudo systemctl start nginx
    sudo systemctl enable nginx
    

    c. Customize the Nginx welcome page to identify the instance:
    
    echo "Welcome to Instance 1" | sudo vim /usr/share/nginx/html/index.html
    
    Repeat the steps above for the second instance, changing the welcome message to "Welcome to Instance 2".

3. Create a Target Group

    a. Navigate to the EC2 Dashboard and click "Target Groups" under "Load Balancing".

    b. Click "Create target group".

    c. Choose "Instances" as the target type, and configure the following:
        - Name: my-target-group
        - Protocol: HTTP
        - Port: 80
        - VPC: Select the VPC where your instances are located

    d. Click "Next" and register the two instances you created earlier as targets.

4. Create a Load Balancer

    a. Navigate to the EC2 Dashboard and click "Load Balancers" under "Load Balancing".

    b. Click "Create Load Balancer" and select "Application Load Balancer".

    c. Configure the load balancer settings:
        - Name: my-load-balancer
        - Scheme: Internet-facing
        - IP address type: IPv4
        - Listeners: HTTP on port 80

    d. Configure the security group to allow HTTP traffic on port 80.

    e. Configure the target group by selecting the one created earlier (my-target-group).

    f. Click "Create Load Balancer".

5. Test the Setup

    a. Once the load balancer is created, navigate to the "Load Balancers" section and copy the DNS name of your new load balancer.

    b. Open a web browser and paste the DNS name. You should see the welcome messages from both instances alternately as the load balancer distributes the requests.

 Conclusion

This demo provides a basic understanding of how to set up and test a load balancer in AWS with two EC2 instances running Nginx. This setup can be further expanded and customized based on specific requirements.




Feel free to copy and adjust the content to fit your needs before posting it on GitHub!
